FAQ: Overhaul Using existing env & Using packages w/installer FAQs (#346)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/faq.rst

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I get Spyder to work with my existing Python packages/environment?
   :container: + dropdown-id-using-existing-environment

   To work with an existing environment in Spyder, change the default Python interpreter for new :doc:`/panes/ipythonconsole`\s to point to this environment.

   To do so, open the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` section of Spyder's preferences (:menuselection:`Tools --> Preferences`, or :menuselection:`Spyder --> Preferences` on macOS).
   Here, select the option :guilabel:`Use the following Python interpreter`, and use the dropdown below to select your preferred environment.
   If it's not listed, see :ref:`the note below <faq-env-not-listed>`.

   .. image:: /images/faq/faq-python-interpreter.png
      :alt: Preferences showing changing Python interpreter

   .. _faq-env-not-listed:

   .. note::

      If you installed Miniconda (or another Conda-based distribution) to a non-default path, or are using a virtual environment managed by a tool other than ``pyenv``, your environments likely won't be listed.

      Instead, use the text box or the :guilabel:`Select file` button to enter the path to the Python interpreter you want to use.

>       You can find this path by activating the venv or Conda env you want to use in your terminal/Anaconda Prompt, and running the shell command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      You can find this path by activating the venv or Conda env you want to use in your terminal or the Anaconda Prompt, and running the command:
```

Small suggestion to make this sentence a bit easier to read.

Author: Sure; one further followup to clarify that the Anaconda Prompt should be used on Windows, and avoid a hard to read and potentially confusing double-or:

```suggestion
      You can find this path by activating the venv or Conda env you want to use in your terminal (Anaconda Prompt on Windows), and running the command:
```

      .. code-block:: shell

         python -c "import sys; print(sys.executable)"

   Finally, click :guilabel:`Restart kernel` in the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu for this change to take effect.
   If ``spyder-kernels`` is not already installed, the :doc:`/panes/ipythonconsole` will display instructions on how to install the right version.

>    Execute the given command in your terminal/Anaconda prompt with the environment activated, and finally restart the kernel once more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Execute the given command in your terminal or the Anaconda prompt with the environment activated, and finally restart the kernel once more.
```

Author: Likewise

```suggestion
   Execute the given command in your terminal (the Anaconda Prompt on Windows) with the environment activated, and finally restart the kernel once more.
```

   Finally, click :guilabel:`Restart kernel` in the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu for this change to take effect.
   If ``spyder-kernels`` is not already installed, the :doc:`/panes/ipythonconsole` will display instructions on how to install the right version.
   Execute the given command in your terminal/Anaconda prompt with the environment activated, and finally restart the kernel once more.

.. _using-packages-installer:

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I install Python packages to use within Spyder if I downloaded Spyder from the standalone installers?
   :container: + dropdown-id-using-packages-installer

   Watch our video on using additional modules or follow the instructions below it.
   Watch our video on using additional packages or follow the instructions below.

   .. youtube:: i7Njb3xO4Fw
      :height: 360
      :width: 640
      :align: left
      :start: 306

   If you want to use other modules in Spyder that don't come with our installer, you need to install `Miniconda`_ (**only if you don't have Anaconda or Miniconda yet!**).
   For Spyder to recognize it, the installation should be done in one of the following default paths:

>    .. table::

Reviewer: I think keeping this table is important so that users know where they can install Anaconda/Miniconda for Spyder to detect their environments.

Why do think we should remove it?

Author: I explain this in the OP:

> * Replaces the long, unwieldy and hard to update table of default paths (which will get >2x as long when spyder-ide/spyder#20498 is merged, and doesn't even include Linux) with a much more concise, actionable and maintainble mention of installing a conda-based distribution to the installer's default directory.

To answer you more specifically, users don't need to do anything for this, they just have to accept the default install path, as the text below explains. This table just lists the default install paths for each platform (Windows/Mac), distribution (Anaconda, Miniconda, Miniforge, etc), Anaconda version (older versions have a different default), Python version (Python 2, Python 3) and installation type (per-user, system), so it is effectively redundant (as only one of them will apply to each user).

Especially in the context of an FAQ aimed at newer users, it's much simpler to just tell them to accept the default install path, then confuse them with a huge table of complex paths and have them try to laboriously try to compare their default path with these. Already, it takes up a full screen's worth of space and over doubles the total length of the FAQ, and in order to not be out of date, we'd need to update it with the Miniforge and Mambaforge variants of each path too (plus maybe some additional variations, if I remember right) which would >=double it's length again, taking up >=two full screens of space. Plus, if we add more paths in the future, it gets even longer and harder to use and maintain.

Reviewer: > Especially in the context of an FAQ aimed at newer users, it's much simpler to just tell them to accept the default install path, then confuse them with a huge table of complex paths and have them try to laboriously try to compare their default path with these

Ok, this is a very good point. Then I agree with removing the table.

>    Create a new conda environment with ``spyder-kernels`` and the packages that you want to use installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Create a new conda environment with ``spyder-kernels`` and the packages that you want to use installed on it.
```

I think it's missing to better understand the meaning of this sentence.

Author: Hmm, well that isn't grammatical. I reworded it this way instead:

```suggestion
   Create a new conda environment containing ``spyder-kernels`` and the packages that you want to use.
```

>       conda create -n scikit-learn-env -c conda-forge spyder-kernels scikit-learn

Reviewer: Perhaps the env should simply be named `my-env`? I mean, this could be confusing to users if they want to install packages different from `scikit-learn` because they'd have to think if the env's name is important in this command or not.

Author: Yeah, good point:

```suggestion
      conda create -n my-env -c conda-forge spyder-kernels scikit-learn
```

>    Finally, connect Spyder to this ``scikit-learn-env`` environment by changing Spyder's default Python interpreter, following the instructions in :ref:`the above answer <using-existing-environment>`.

Author: Oops, forgot this

```suggestion
   Finally, connect Spyder to this ``my-env`` environment by changing Spyder's default Python interpreter, following the instructions in :ref:`the above answer <using-existing-environment>`.
```

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I get Spyder to work with my existing Python packages/environment?
   :container: + dropdown-id-using-existing-environment

   To work with an existing environment in Spyder, change the default Python interpreter for new :doc:`/panes/ipythonconsole`\s to point to this environment.
   To do so, click the name of the current environment in the status bar, and then click :guilabel:`Change default environment in Preferences`.

>    .. image:: /images/faq/faq-change-environment.png

Author: Yeah, the screenshot is a bit out of date with what the latest versions show; specifically, they have two entries, one for the current console env and one for the completion env, but always show the same thing—and even more confusingly, the _Completions_ entry is the one with the popup, and _not_ the main environment entry.

IIRC, it was discussed recently that we should just eliminate the redundant `Completions` entry and re-consolidate on the main environment entry, making the status bar again look like it does in the screenshot—but I'm not sure the status of that. @ccordoba12 ?

Given the situation, I'm thinking maybe it's better to just describe how to get to the Python interpreter settings through the normal preferences route for now, since that is easier to find and more consistent across Python versions?

>    .. image:: /images/faq/faq-change-environment.png

Reviewer 2: > Given the situation, I'm thinking maybe it's better to just describe how to get to the Python interpreter settings through the normal preferences route for now, since that is easier to find and more consistent across Python versions?

I agree.

>    .. image:: /images/faq/faq-change-environment.png

Author: Thanks, went ahead and implemented that. It also makes the FAQ answer shorter and simpler overall, since it already mentions that pane's in preferences.

      :alt: Change default environment in Preferences option in status bar

   This will open the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` pane of Spyder's preferences.

>    Here, select the option :guilabel:`Use the following Python interpreter`, and use the dropdown below to select your preferred environment, or paste/browse for the path to your desired Python interpreter.

Reviewer 2: I don't like the "paste/browse for" construction, but I am not sure I know something better. This is the best I could come up with:

```suggestion
   Here, select the option :guilabel:`Use the following Python interpreter`, and use the dropdown below to select your preferred environment.
   If your environment is not listed, you can also enter the path to your desired Python interpreter directly as explained in the note below.
```
The last six words may be superfluous. I added them because readers may miss the note because they don't look under the picture.

Author: Yeah, I didn't like it either and previously had something similar; I just also didn't t want to duplicate what was stated again immediately below, especially in the context of a relatively concise FAQ answer.

What about something a little more succinct which links the note? 

```suggestion
   Here, select the option :guilabel:`Use the following Python interpreter`, and use the dropdown below to select your preferred environment.
   If it's not listed, see :ref:`the note below <faq-env-not-listed>`.
```

   .. image:: /images/faq/faq-python-interpreter.png
      :alt: Preferences showing changing Python interpreter

>    .. note::

Author: ```suggestion
   .. _faq-env-not-listed:

   .. note::
```

Ref target label for the above suggestion

   If ``spyder-kernels`` is not already installed, the :doc:`/panes/ipythonconsole` will display instructions on how to install the right version.
   Execute the given command in your terminal/Anaconda prompt with the environment activated, and finally restart the kernel once more.

.. _using-packages-installer:

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I install Python packages to use within Spyder if I downloaded Spyder from the standalone installers?
   :container: + dropdown-id-using-packages-installer

   Watch our video on using additional packages or follow the instructions below.

   .. youtube:: i7Njb3xO4Fw
      :height: 360
      :width: 640
      :align: left
      :start: 306

   If you want to use other packages in Spyder that don't come with our installer, you need to have your own Python distribution installed; we recommend `Miniconda`_ or another Conda-based option.
   For Spyder to recognize it automatically, you should use a Conda-based distribution with its default install path.

   .. _Miniconda: https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html

   Create a new conda environment with ``spyder-kernels`` and the packages that you want to use installed.

>    For example, if you want to use ``scikit-learn``, open your terminal (or Anaconda prompt on Windows) and run the following commands:

Author: Oops, forgot to update that when I trimmed the command here

   .. code-block:: shell

>       conda create -n scikit-learn-env -c conda-forge -y spyder-kernels scikit-learn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      conda create -n scikit-learn-env -c conda-forge spyder-kernels scikit-learn
```
No big deal, but personally I prefer that example commands use as few flags as necessary and not get in the habit of using `-y`.

Author: Yeah, I have the same philosophy—I almost removed it as well, but had ended up leaving it how it was previously.
